# Pixel-Pop-MarketPlace
This assignment mainly focuses on making a web application for E-commerce management. The retail store application has four main users which are Customers, Suppliers, Delivery executives and Admin.The customers can log into the system using their credentials and view the products, add products to cart and check the bill. Suppliers can log in and add products with its details to the supplier dashboard. Retailers can update the inventory and check the products. Admin can log in and view all the details of all the users and the products available in the inventory.


ENTITY SETS- There are 3 databases-
● Sql_inventory
● Sql_retailstore
● Sql_users

TABLES
1. Database sql_inventory
  • Category
  • prod_contains
  • Product
2. Database sql_retailstore
  • add_to_cart
  • cart_Details
  • bill_details
  • payment
  • placing_order
  • pays
  • assigns
  • success_payment
  • ordered_items
3. database sql_users
  • admin
  • Delivery_Executive
  • customer
  • Supplier
  • USER
  • manages
  • supplies

SQL QUERIES
1. Triggers
We have implemented three triggers in our e- commerce management system.
  1. When a customer enters their payment details. After viewing their order, they proceed to the payment details. If the card's expiry date refers to a date in the past, the details won’t be accepted, and an Error message will be displayed. The user can then enter their card details again with the correct details.
  2. When the user tries to add a product to the cart, but the quantity of products added exceeds the quantity of products available, an error message will be displayed. Otherwise, it will state, ‘Successfully added.’
  3. Our Third trigger is based on the quantity of products. It is a fallback feature in case our database encounters a negative value for the number of products. Every time a customer places an order, the product quantity they ordered is subtracted from the inventory. To avoid getting negative values in the database, the trigger checks if the product quantity to be updated is less than or equal to zero and then sets it to zero.

2. Nested Queries
We have implemented four Nested queries in our retail store. We have populated our tables with data to get results for these queries.
  1. Top 10 products-
    This is shown on the customer login page. On clicking, the customer can view the top 10 selling products based on previous orders and search and filter to find that product on the main page.
  2. The Net Revenue generated by each category- This is visible in the Admin Login in the ‘Manage Inventory -> Manage Category’ option.
  3. The Net Profit from each order-
  This is available in the admin login again under the
  ‘Manage Customers’ option. Here we have applied a random formula to generate some profit to show the functionality of our nested query.
  4. Our fourth Nested query shows the Net earning of each customer based on their order. This is also in the exact location of our third query under a different button.
3.Procedure
This is a procedure named grant_select_to_admins() which is designed to grant SELECT permission on a database table named Product to all the users which are listed in the admin table.
